It's important to understand
that when we install nodejs, we get two tools or two things for the price of one you could say. We get nodejs
and we get npm, node's package manager
and remember that this was the tool we used for installing packages into our project or when I share
my project, like with all the code attachments, that you could re-install all dependencies required by
that project
even though I did not share the node modules folder because we have that package.json file where
we see all the dependencies.
So nodejs
is the programming language we used to execute code, to execute javascript code based on that nodejs runtime
with all the features that gives us and especially important when we look at it from a build tool perspective,
we have to remember that with nodejs, we were able to interact with files and this will become important
in a second.
Npm as I said is node's package manager,
so we manage guess what, packages with it and with that, I mean we can install packages, download them,
manage their versions and so on and we can also run scripts.
We did that with npm start for example to start our server so that we don't have to write or type the
full command for that.
Now let's have a closer look at these two pieces and see what else they can do or how that can be helpful
to use them in the context of build tooling, so in the context of utility scripts and not in the context
of spinning up a web server.